---
dg-publish: 
dg-hide: "true"
---
the bourbons were the ruling house. in circa 1750, there were spanish and french bourbons, thus forming an alliance. the 7 years war was the 1st world war, technically, since it was fought in many parts around the world. england emerges as the victor. spain and france loses. this sense of defeat makes spanish quite insecure. rumors get blown out of proportion. if you fear something tremendously, it may become real to you. imperial russia begins to expand in the pacific. it expands to alaska and expands due to the fur trade. mostly economical reasons. in the 1760s... the dispatchers plan say catherine plans on strengthening her position. spain thinks russia is a threat to them. they don't take into the fact that there are barely any russians there. it's not a rational conclusion. spain had claimed much of the pacific and felt threatened by russia. they decide to get california as a frontline defense against THE RUSSIAN MENACE! to prevent them from expanding from north to south. spain calls for a visita. galvez had a plan to arm gorillas. ....???? had a meltdown. principal reason that spain occupied california. had a plan that would be a land and maritime expedition. focus on monterey but at the last minute there is a change. they needed a base of operations. galvez's plan was put into action in 1769. from the spanish perspective, the mother of california was lower california. old and new california. baja n north. state and church are extensions of lower california. gaspar de portola - military commander of north and south. junipero serra. 2 years before the occupation, in 1767, the jesuits were expelled by the spanish world by the king. because *it was an expression of the king. "there may be a union of church and state, but the state rules over the church* the largest hacienda belonged to jesuits, and so was confiscated. the jesuits were kicked out and thus all the buildings were vacant. Serra volunteers to work on the new frontier and is appointed by the viceroy and is in charge of the new franciscan missions. well, the buildings were jesuit, but yeah. 4 expeditions. summer of '69! 1769... there is a place in san diego on the harbor, called dead mans point, which is where they had a field hospital. what the spaniards do is they move from the coast to a site about 6 miles to the west and on july 16th , 1769 serra sees a high mast at the hill. thats where the 1st mission was built. that is the beginning of spanish settlement on the pacific coast, north of mexico. "the west coast james town" they occupy monterey. 1776 --- expansion of spanish presence due to spains defeat in the 7 year war. there were 21 missions built in spanish settlements the missions were the powerhouses. they had many square miles of land. a typical mission might have 2 missionaries working with native americans and a thousand indians. they learned spanish skills. they become very important economically. ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// THE PAPER IS EVIDENCE BASED FUN. WOO. the enlightenment includes russia, france, england, spain. all things they shared included: a belief based on the scientific method. natural science, direct observation and the use of rational, critical thinking and using your brain, rational thoughts. reason tells us what is natural. profoundly secular!! **galileo gets in trouble for claiming the cosmos being heliocentric and gets in trouble with the church because he says the earth move. progress. the human condition can be improved by the rational creation of new societies and ...? REASON! locke was a product of the english glorious revolution. from his perspective; hobbes is arguing that people are beastial and violent. to have order, people should have the leviathan. surrender your authority to the leviathan! hobbes says that people are the source of power and given to the leviathan to protect people. arguing empirically that there needs to be restraint. it is absolute only if order is maintained. locke says power comes from the people. his focus is on the limitations of the state. THE STATE MUST BE RESTRAINED BECAUSE WE HAVE NATURAL RIGHTS TO LIFE, LIBERTY AND PROPERTY. what locke is doing is looking at the constitutional monarchy being formed and saying we need our rights protected. he was a physician and looking government scientifically. he was an elitist, of the gentry and he wanted his own class protected. he was not a democrat, he was looking out for his own interest group. wanted indirect representation. rousseau people who didnt have property were also included in peoples primordial state, people lived in peace because property was held in common. when people move to cities they become more aggressive in getting personal property, which can be the source of greed and conflict. he is concerned about how land is acquired. how it makes people selfish. what locke argues is that there is a social contract between you and who you elect. russeau argues you form a contract with everyone else. you don't surrender it