---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Daily Notes/2025-03-18","permalink":"/daily-notes/2025-03-18/"}
---




Just  learned about .omg.lol domains. I think using these with the digital garden plugin and vercel I could easily create websites for friends and family who've been toyin with the idea of having their own site but find the technical aspect daunting (even for WYSIWYG sites) to even start. 

They'd just need obsidian (on phone or laptop). I could probably just use my own github and vercel accounts to deploy their sites, until/unless the site(s) evolve into a serious project for them.

----------
an excerpt from icanstudy
> Instead of reading twice as fast (and forgetting half of it a week later anyway), it’s better (and easier) to double your processing ability.
> 
> **Here’s how to do that:**
> 
> 1. **Paint the picture**. You may be reading line by line, but that’s not how knowledge is structured. Connect every new idea back to the big picture. If you don’t see how it relates to the big picture, then you need to…
>     
> 2. **Read less. Pause more**. Like I said, the bottleneck isn’t on paper, it’s in your brain. Pause frequently and think about what you’ve read. Don’t read any more **until** you feel like everything makes sense and fits in the big picture you’re constructing. This is a sign that it’s mentally _organized_, which is the key to effective learning.
>     
> 3. **Literally paint the picture**. It’s hard to keep track of more than a few ideas at once. Especially if you’re doing the first 2 points and trying to see how it all connects together. This is where non-linear notes like mapping come into play. Use non-linear maps to track your thoughts. Instead of thinking about it in your head, draw your connections out and think on paper.

---------
strangely, I run into errors when using the digital garden plugin from multiple devices. But using github desktop to update a single note works just fine. 